# Kickstarter_vs_COVID-19
Group Project for DATA7001 course

Executive Summary:

  KickStarter, despite COVID-19 and its impact on the global economy appears to be thriving in the face of adversity. This is illustrated not just through the success rates being unhindered pre-COVID and post-COVID, but also through the number of campaigns launched remaining consistent. After the 13th of March this year, when the US declared COVID-19 a health crisis, KickStarter did not slow and many interesting insights are still able to be gained.
We discovered through our project that there are varying key predictors which can impact the success of a campaign. These include category, day of release, campaign length, goal, and reward tiers. Reward tiers was another crucial aspect to determining success as the actual amounts that customers are able to pledge plays a role in campaigns meeting their goal. These reward tiers, explored through variance measures such as min, max, quartiles, and mean, were integral to predicting success alongside campaign length and the number of reward tiers present.

  Different attempts were made to utilize these predictors in selecting an applicable and significant model. Methods such as K-Means were deemed to be invalid due to a lack of meaningful information provided. Other methods such as KNN Classification and Logistic Regression were discovered to be a step in the right direction for building a predictive model for success. Ultimately however, the group landed on Random Forests as the most effective model to predict success in a project and provide insight into what predictors contribute to this the most.
  
  These random forests allowed us to discover the order of importance of predictors for each period (pre/post COVID), which gave insights into the effect of COVID on Kickstarter by comparing importance measures. Although the post-COVID model was less predictive, the predictive power of both of these models was statistically significant, even accounting for the class imbalance in the data’s success measure classes. In particular, goal amount, number of reward tiers, and campaign length were found to be significant factors in a campaign’s success chance, with goal importance overtaking the number of tiers importance post-COVID.
  
  As a final note, the group highlighted some possible future extensions which could enrich the project and further aid campaigners on their road to success. Marketing materials likely play a large part in how consumers perceive campaigns and the most analyzable aspect of these materials is colour; this project could be extended to consider the colour (for example: ‘warm’ vs. ‘cool’ colours) as a predictor for success. Secondly, KickStarter is not the only crowd-funding website. IndieGoGo is another large and successful crowd-funding platform and comparative models between these two services can be used to enrich this project further. Finally, as COVID-19 is an ongoing situation, more current data will enrich the predictive models that focus on the COVID-19 period that the US currently presides in. As the pandemic worsens and continues to threaten employment and expendable income, KickStarter and other crowd-funding services may begin to be affected.
